<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-6" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
			<section id="stanza-26">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The jeweler merits little praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who loves but what he sees with eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it were a discourteous phrase</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To say our Lord would make a lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who surely pledged thy soul to raise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though fate should cause thy flesh to die.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dost twist His words in crooked ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believing only what is nigh;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is but pride and bigotry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a good man may ill assume,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hold no matter trustworthy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till like a judge he hear and doom.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-27">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Whate’er thy doom, dost thou complain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As man should speak to God most high?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou wouldst gladly dwell in this domain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T were best, methinks, for leave to apply.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even so, perchance, thou pleadest in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across this water thou wouldst fly⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To other end thou must attain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy corpse to clay comes verily⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Paradise ’twas ruined by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our forefather. Now in the womb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dreary death each man must lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere God on this bank gives his doom.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-28">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Doom me not, sweet, to my old fears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pain again wherein I pine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My pearl that, long, long lost, appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall I again forego, in fine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meet it, and miss it through more years?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast hurt me with that threat of thine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what serves treasure but for tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One must so soon his bliss resign?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I reck not how my days decline,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though far from earth my soul seek room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parted from that dear pearl of mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save endless dole what is man’s doom?”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-29">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“No doom save pain and soul’s distress?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She answered: “Wherefore thinkst thou so?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pain of parting with the less,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man often lets the greater go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T were better thou thy fate shouldst bless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And love thy God, through weal and woe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For anger wins not happiness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who must, shall bear; bend thy pride low;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For though thou mayst dance to and fro,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Struggle and shriek, and fret and fume,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When thou canst stir not, swift nor slow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last, thou must endure His doom.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-30">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Let God doom as He doth ordain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will not turn one foot aside;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy good deeds mount up but in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou must in sorrow ever bide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stint of thy strife, cease to complain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seek His compassion safe and wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy prayer His pity may obtain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Mercy all her might have tried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy anguish He will heal and hide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lightly lift away thy gloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, be thou sore or satisfied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All is for Him to deal and doom.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
