<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-8" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
			<section id="stanza-36">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“My blissful one, may this be true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pardon if I speak ill,” I prayed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Art thou the queen o’ the heaven’s blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To whom earth’s honour shall be paid?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We believe in Mary, of grace who grew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mother, yet a blameless maid;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wear her crown were only due</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To one who purer worth displayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For perfectness by none gainsaid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We call her the Phoenix of Araby,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That flies in faultless charm arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like to the Queen of courtesy.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-37">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Courteous Queen,” that bright one said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, kneeling, lifted up her face:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Matchless Mother and merriest Maid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessèd Beginner of every grace.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then she arose, and softly stayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spoke to me across that space:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Sir, many seek gain here, and are paid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But defrauders are none within this place;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Empress may all heaven embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And earth and hell in her empery;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her from her heritage none will chase,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For she is Queen of courtesy.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-38">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“The court of the kingdom of God doth thrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only because of this wondrous thing:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each one who therein may arrive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the realm is either queen or king;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one the other doth deprive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But is fain of his fellow’s guerdoning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And would wish each crown might be worth five,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If possible were their bettering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my Lady, from whom our Lord did spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rules over all our company,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for that we all rejoice and sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since she is Queen of courtesy.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-39">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Of courtesy, as says <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> Paul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Members of Christ we may be seen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As head and arm and leg, and all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bound to the body close have been,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each Christian soul himself may call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A living limb of his Lord, I ween.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And see how neither hate nor gall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twixt limb and limb may intervene;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The head shows neither spite nor spleen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though arm and finger jewelled be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So fare we all in love serene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As kings and queens by courtesy.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-40">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Courtesy flowers thy folk among,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And charity, I well believe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If foolish words flow from my tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let not my speech thy spirit grieve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A queen in heaven while yet so young,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too high thou dost thyself upheave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then what reward from strife were wrung?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What worship more might he achieve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lived in penance morn and eve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through bodily pain in bliss to be?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Honour more high might he receive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than be crowned king by courtesy?”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
