<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2>
			<section id="stanza-1">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Pearl that the Prince full well might prize,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So surely set in shining gold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No pearl of Orient with her vies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove her peerless I make bold:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So round, so radiant to mine eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>smooth she seemed, so small to hold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among all jewels judges wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would count her best an hundred fold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! I lost my pearl of old!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pine with heart-pain unforgot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down through my arbour grass it rolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My own pearl, precious, without spot.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-2">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Since in that spot it slipped from me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wait, and wish, and oft complain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once it would bid my sorrow flee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my fair fortune turn again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It wounds my heart now ceaselessly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And burns my breast with bitter pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet never so sweet a song may be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As, this still hour, steals through my brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While verity I muse in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How clay should her bright beauty clot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Earth! a brave gem thou dost stain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My own pearl, precious, without spot!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-3">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Needs must that spot with spices spread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where such wealth falleth to decay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair flowers, golden and blue and red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shine in the sunlight day by day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor flower nor fruit have witherèd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On turf wherein such treasure lay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blade grows where the grain lies dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Else were no ripe wheat stored away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of good come good things, so we say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then surely such seed faileth not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But spices spring in sweet array</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From my pearl, precious, without spot.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-4">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Once, to that spot of which I rhyme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I entered, in the arbour green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In August, the high summer-time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When corn is cut with sickles keen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the mound where my pearl fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tall, shadowing herbs grew bright and sheen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gilliflower, ginger and gromwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With peonies powdered all between.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As it was lovely to be seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So sweet the fragrance there, I wot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Worthy her dwelling who hath been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My own pearl, precious, without spot.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-5">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Upon that spot my hands I crossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In prayer, for cold at my heart caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sudden sorrow surged and tossed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though reason reconcilement sought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mourned my pearl, dear beyond cost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strange fears with my fancy fought;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My will in wretchedness was lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet Christ comforted my thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such odours to my sense were brought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fell upon that flowery plot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleeping⁠—a sleep with dreams inwrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of my pearl, precious, without spot.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
