<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
			<section id="stanza-6">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>From the spot my spirit springs into space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while my body sleeping lies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My ghost is gone in God’s good grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adventuring mid mysteries;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know not what might be the place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I looked where tall cliffs cleave the skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toward a forest I turned my face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where ranks of radiant rocks arise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man might scarce believe his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such gleaming glory was from them sent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No woven web may men devise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of half such wondrous beauties blent.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-7">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>In beauty shone each fair hillside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With crystal cliffs in shining row,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While bright woods everywhere abide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their boles as blue as indigo;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like silver clear the leaves spread wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That on each spray thick-quivering grow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If a flash of light across them glide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shimmering sheen they gleam and glow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gravel on the ground below</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed precious pearls of Orient;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sunbeams did but darkling show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So gloriously those beauties blent.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-8">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The beauty of the hills so fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made me forget my sufferings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I breathed fruit fragrance fine and rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if I fed on unseen things;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brave birds fly through the woodland there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of flaming hues, and each one sings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their mad mirth may not compare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cithern nor gayest citole-strings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For when those bright birds beat their wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sing together, all content;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keen joy to any man it brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear and see such beauties blent.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-9">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>So beautiful was all the wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, guided forth by Chance, I strayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no tongue that fully could</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Describe it, though all men essayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Onward I walked in merriest mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor any highest hill delayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My feet. Far through the forest stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plain with fairest trees arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hedges and slopes and rivers wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like gold thread their banks’ garnishment;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I won the waterside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Lord! what wondrous beauties blent!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-10">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The beauties of that stream were steep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All-radiant banks of beryl bright;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet-sighing did the water sweep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With murmuring music running light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within its bed fair stones lay deep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if through glass they glowed, as white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As streaming stars when tired men sleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shine in the sky on a winter night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pure emerald even the pebbles seemed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sapphire, or other gems that lent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Luster, till all the water gleamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the glory of such beauties blent.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
