<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-16" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h2>
			<section id="stanza-77">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Yet, none the less, on thee I call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou wilt listen verily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As thou art glorious over all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hearken the while I question thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within some splendid castle wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have ye not dwellings fair to see?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of David’s city, rich, royal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jerusalem, thou tellest me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Palestine its place must be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In wildwood such none ever saw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since spotless is your purity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your dwellings should be free from flaw.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-78">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Now this most fair and flawless rout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thronging thousands, as thou dost tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They must possess, beyond a doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sightly city wherein to dwell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T were strange that they should live without;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For so bright a band it were not well;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I see no building hereabout.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost thou linger as in a woodland cell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone and hidden, for the spell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rushing stream and shining shaw?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou hast a dwelling beyond this dell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now show me that city free from flaw.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-79">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Not flawless the city in Juda’s land,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That gentle one gently to me spake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“But the Lamb did bless it when He planned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To suffer there sorely for man’s sake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is the old city we understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there the bonds of old guilt did break;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the new, alighted from God’s hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Apostle John for his theme did take.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lamb Who is white with never a flake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of black, did thither His fair folk draw;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For His flock no fenced fold need He make,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor moat for His city free from flaw.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-80">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“To figure flawlessly what may mean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jerusalems twain: the first of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was ‘the Sight of Peace’ as it is seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the word of God, for the gospel shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How there our peace made sure hath been,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since to suffer therein the Saviour chose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the other is always peace to glean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peace that never an ending knows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To that city bright the spirit goes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the flesh hath fallen beneath death’s law;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There glorious gladness forever grows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For His fair folk that are free from flaw.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-81">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Flawless maid so mild and meek,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then said I to that lovely flower:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Let me that stately city seek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me see thy blissful bower.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bright one said, “Thou art too weak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou may’st not enter to its tower;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet of the Lamb I did bespeak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This goodly gift, that He would dower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine eyes with the sight for one short hour⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From without⁠—within none ever saw;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To step in that street thou hast no power,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless thy soul were free from flaw.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
