<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
			<section id="stanza-16">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>More than I liked did my fear rise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stock still I stood and dared not call;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lips close shut and watchful eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stood as quiet as hawk in hall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought her a spirit from the skies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I doubted what thing might befall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If to escape me now she tries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How shall my voice her flight forestall?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then graciously and gay withal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In royal robes, so sweet, so slight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She rose, so modest and so small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That precious one in pearls bedight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-17">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Pearl bedight full royally,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adown the bank with merry mien,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came the maiden, fresh as fleur-de-lys.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her surcoat linen must have been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shining in whitest purity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slashed at the sides and caught between</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the fairest pearls, it seemed to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ever yet mine eyes had seen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With large folds falling loose, I ween,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arrayed with double pearls, her white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kirtle, of the same linen sheen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With precious pearls all round was dight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-18">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>A crown with pearls bedight, the girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was wearing, and no other stone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High pinnacled of clear white pearl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrought as if pearls to flowers were grown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No band nor fillet else did furl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long locks all about her thrown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her air demure as duke or earl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her hue more white than walrus-bone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like sheer gold thread the bright hair strown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loose on her shoulders, lying light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her colour took a deeper tone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bordering pearls so fair bedight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-19">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Bedight was every hem, and bound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At wrists, sides, and each aperture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pearls the whitest ever found⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White all her brave investiture;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a wondrous pearl, a flawless round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon her breast was set full sure;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man’s mind it might well astound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all his wits to madness lure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought that no tongue might endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fully to tell of that sweet sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So was it perfect, clear and pure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That precious pearl with pearls bedight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-20">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Bedight in pearls, lest my joy cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lovely one came down the shore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gladdest man from here to Greece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eagerest, was I, therefore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was nearer kin than aunt or niece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus my joy was much the more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She spoke to me for my soul’s peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courtesied with her quaint woman’s lore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught off the shining crown she wore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And greeted me with glance alight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I blessed my birth; my bliss brimmed o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To answer her in pearls bedight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
