<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-13" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2>
			<section id="stanza-61">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Christ called to Him the innocents mild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said His kingdom no man might win,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless he came thither as a child⁠—Not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>otherwise might he enter in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Harmless, faithful, undefiled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With never a spot of soiling sin⁠—For</span>
					<br/>
					<span>these whom the world has not beguiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gladly shall one the gate unpin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There shall that endless bliss begin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The merchant sought, and straight was led</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To barter all stuffs men weave and spin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To buy him a pearl unblemished.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-62">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘This pearl unblemished, bought so dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For which the merchant his riches gave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is like the kingdom of heaven clear;’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So said the Father of world and wave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a flawless, perfect sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Polished and pure, and bright and brave;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As on my heart it doth appear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is common to all who to virtue clave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Lord, the Lamb Who died to save,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here set it in token of His blood shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For peace. Then let the wild world rave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But buy thee this pearl unblemishèd.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-63">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“O Pearl unblemished, in pure pearls dressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That beareth,” said I, “the pearl of price,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who formed thy figure⁠—and thy vest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Truly he wrought with cunning nice;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thy beauty, above nature’s best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passeth Pygmalion’s artifice;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor Aristotle the lore possessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To depict in words so fair device.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than fleur-de-lys thou art fairer thrice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angel-mannered and courtly bred⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell to me truly: in Paradise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What meaneth the pearl unblemished?”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-64">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“My spotless Lamb, who all doth heal,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She answered, “my dear Destiny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chose me in marriage bond to seal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unfit, He graced me regally,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your world’s woe come into weal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He called me of His courtesy:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Come hither to me, my lover leal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For mote nor spot is none in thee.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gave me my might and great beauty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He washed my weeds in His blood so red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crowned me, forever clean to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clothed me in pearls unblemishèd.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-65">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Unblemished bride, bright to behold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That royalty hath so rich and rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is this Lamb, that thou hast told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How for wedded wife He called thee there?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above all others dost thou make bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As His chosen lady His life to share?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So many, comely in combs of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Christ have lived in strife and care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must these to a lower place repair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That never any with Him may wed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save only thyself, so proud and fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peerless Queen, and unblemished?”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
