<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-19" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h2>
			<section id="stanza-92">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Now, even as the full moon might rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere daylight doth to darkness fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sudden I saw with still surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that shining city-wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The streets full-thronged in wondrous wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent, with never a herald’s call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With virgins in the selfsame guise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As my beloved, sweet and small.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each head was crowned with coronal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pearl-wrought, and every robe was white;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each breast bound, imperial,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Pearl of Price with great delight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-93">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>With great delight together going</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On glassy golden streets they tread;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a hundred thousand swiftly growing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all alike were they garmented:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gladdest face who could be knowing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lamb did proudly pass ahead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His seven horns of clear red gold glowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His robes like pearls high valuèd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On toward the throne their way they thread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None crowded in that band so bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But mild as maidens when mass is said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So fared they forth with great delight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-94">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The great delight His coming gave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It were too much for me to tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When He approached the Elders grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prone there before His feet they fell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Legions of summoned angels brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swayed censers of the sweetest smell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With music like a mighty wave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All sang in praise of that gay Jewel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hymn might strike through earth to hell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That with joy those hosts of heaven recite;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To praise the Lamb I liked full well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the group in great delight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-95">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Delighted, I would fain devise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His loveliness, with mind intent:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First was He, blithest, best to prize,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all on whom man’s speech is spent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So nobly white His draperies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such grace His simple glances lent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a wide, wet wound my gaze descries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath His heart, through His skin rent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down His white side the blood was sent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! I thought, what scorn or spite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could any human heart have bent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In such a deed to take delight?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-96">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The Lamb’s delight might no man doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though that wide wound His hurt displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From His fair face looked lovely out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glad glances, glorious, unafraid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I looked upon His shining rout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fullest life so bright arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My little queen there moved about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had thought beside me in the glade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah Lord! how much of mirth she made!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among her peers she was so white!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stream I surely needs must wade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For longing love, in great delight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
