<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-11" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
			<section id="stanza-51">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Of more or less where God doth reign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no chance,” she gently said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“For, whether large or small his gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here every man alike is paid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No niggard churl our High Chieftain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lavishly His gifts are made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like streams from a moat that flow amain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or rushing waves that rise unstayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free were his pardon whoever prayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him who to save man’s soul did vow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unstinted his bliss, and undelayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the grace of God is great enow.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-52">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“But now thou wouldst my wit checkmate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Making my wage as wrong appear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou say’st that I am come too late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of so large hire to be worthy here;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet sawest thou ever small or great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living in prayer and holy fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who did not forfeit at some date</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meed of heaven to merit clear?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay much the rather, year by year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All bend from right and to evil bow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mercy and grace their way must steer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the grace of God is great enow.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-53">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“But enow of grace have the innocent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New-born, before the sacred shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are sealed with water in sacrament,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus are brought into the vine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anon the day with darkness blent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death by its might makes to decline;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who wrought no wrong ere hence they went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gentle Lord receives, in fine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They obeyed His will, they bore His sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why should He not their claim allow?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, and reward them, I opine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the grace of God is great enow.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-54">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis known enow that all mankind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At first were formed for perfect bliss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our forefather that boon resigned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All for an apple’s sake, I wis;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We fell condemned, for folly blind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To suffer sore in hell’s abyss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But One a remedy did find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest we our hope of heaven should miss.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He suffered on the cross for this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red blood ran from His crownèd brow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saved us by that pain of His,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the grace of God is great enow.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-55">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Enow there flowed from out that well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood and water from His broad wound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blood bought us from bale of hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from second death deliverance found.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The water is baptism, truth to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That followed⁠—the spear so sharply ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And washes away the guilt most fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of those that Adam in death had drowned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now is there nothing in earth’s great round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bar from the bliss wherewith God did endow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mankind⁠—restored to us safe and sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the grace of God is great enow.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
