<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-5" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
			<section id="stanza-21">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“O Pearl,” I said, “in pearls bedight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Art thou my pearl for which I mourn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lamenting all alone at night?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With hidden grief my heart is worn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since thou through grass didst slip from sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pensive and pained, I pass forlorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou livest in a life of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A world where enters sin nor scorn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What fate has hither my jewel borne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left me in earth’s strife and stir?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, sweet, since we in twain were torn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have been a joyless jeweler.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-22">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>That Jewel then with gems besprent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glanced up at me with eyes of grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put on her pearl crown orient,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soberly began to say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You tell your tale with wrong intent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking your pearl gone quite away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a jewel within a coffer pent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this gracious garden bright and gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your pearl may ever dwell at play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where sin nor mourning come to her;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It were a joy to thee alway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wert thou a gentle jeweler.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-23">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“But, Jeweler, if thou dost lose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy joy for a gem once dear to thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Methinks thou dost thy mind abuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bewildered by a fantasy;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast lost nothing save a rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That flowered and failed by life’s decree:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because the coffer did round it close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A precious pearl it came to be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thief thou hast dubbed thy destiny</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That something for nothing gives thee, sir;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou blamest thy sorrow’s remedy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou art no grateful jeweler.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-24">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Like jewels did her story fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A jewel, every gentle clause;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Truly,” I said, “thou best of all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My great distress thy voice withdraws.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought my pearl lost past recall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My jewel shut within earth’s jaws;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now I shall keep festival,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dwell with it in bright wood-shaws;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And love my Lord and all His laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hath brought this bliss. Ah! if I were</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond these waves, I should have cause</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a joyful jeweler.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-25">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Jeweler,” said that Gem so dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why jest ye men, so mad ye be?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three sayings thou hast spoken clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And unconsidered were all three;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their meaning thou canst not come near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy word before thy thought doth flee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First, thou believest me truly here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because with eyes thou mayst me see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Second, with me in this country</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou wilt dwell, whatever may deter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Third, that to cross here thou art free:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That may no joyful jeweler.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
