<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-10" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
			<section id="stanza-46">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“The lord soon called his steward: ‘Go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring in the men quick as ye may;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give them the wages that I owe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, lest they aught against me say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Range them along here in a row,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To each alike his penny pay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Start with the last who standeth low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the first proceed straightway,’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the first began to pray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Complaining they had travailed sore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘These wrought but one hour of the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We think we should receive the more.’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-47">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘More have we served,’ they muttered low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Who have endured the long day’s heat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than these who not two hours toiled so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why should their claim with ours compete?’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the master: ‘I pay all I owe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Friend, no injustice shalt thou meet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take that which is thine own and go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a penny we settled in the street;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why dost thou now for more entreat?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou wast well satisfied before.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once made, a bargain is complete;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why shouldst thou, threatening, ask for more?”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-48">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘What can be more within my gift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than what I will with mine to do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let not thine eyes to evil shift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because I trusty am, and true.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Thus I,’ said Christ, ‘all men shall sift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last shall be the first of you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the first last, however swift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For many are called, but chosen, few.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus poor men may have their due,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That late and little burden bore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their work may vanish like the dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mercy of God is much the more.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-49">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“More gladness have I, herewithin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of flower of life, and noble name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than all men in the world might win,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who thought their righteous deeds to name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nathless even now did I begin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the vineyard as night fell I came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my Lord would not account it sin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He paid my wages without blame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet others did not fare the same,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who toiled and travailed there before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of their hire might nothing claim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perchance shall not for a year more.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-50">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">L</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Then more, and openly, I spake:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“From thy tale no reason can I wring;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s righteousness doth ever wake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Else Holy Writ is a fabled thing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the Psalter one verse let us take,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That may to a point this teaching bring:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Thou requitest each for his deed’s sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou high and all-foreknowing King.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one man to his work did cling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All day, and thou wert paid before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most wage falls to least labouring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever the less receives the more.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
