<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-17" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
			<section id="stanza-82">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“This flawless sight I will not hide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up toward the brook’s head thou must go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I will follow on this side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till yonder hill the city show.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I would no longer bide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But stole through branches, bending low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till from the summit I espied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through green boughs swaying to and fro,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Afar, the city, all aglow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That brighter than bright sunbeams shone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In writing it is pictured so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the Revelation of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-83">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>As John the Apostle saw the sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw that city, standing near</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jerusalem, so royal dight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if from Heaven alighted here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The city all of gold burned bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like gleaming glass that glistens clear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With precious stones beneath set right:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foundations twelve of gems most dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrought wondrous richly, tier on tier.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each base was of a separate stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As, perfectly, it doth appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the Revelation of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-84">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>John named the stones that he had seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew the order that he made;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The first a jasper must have been,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That on the lowest base was laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the rest it glinted green;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sapphire in the second grade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chalcedony, from blemish clean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the third course was fair arrayed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fourth, emerald, of greenest shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fifth, sardonyx, was raised thereon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sixth a ruby, as is said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the Revelation of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-85">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>John joined to these the chrysolite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seventh gem in that basement;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eighth, a beryl, clear and white;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The topaz, ninth, its luster lent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tenth, chrysophrase, both soft and bright;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eleventh, the jacinth, translucent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And twelfth, and noblest to recite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amethyst, blue with purple blent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wall above those basements went</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jasper, like glass that glistening shone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw, as the story doth present⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Revelation of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-86">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I saw, as John doth clear devise:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great stones rose like a broad stair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above, the city, to my eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In height, length, breadth appeared four-square;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The jasper wall shone amber-wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The golden streets as glass gleamed fair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dwellings glowed in glorious guise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With every stone most rich and rare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each length of bright wall builded there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For full twelve furlongs’ space stretched on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And height, length, breadth all equal were:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I saw one mete it,” writeth John.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
