<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-12" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
			<section id="stanza-56">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Grace enow a man may get</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By penitence, though he sin again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with long sorrow and regret,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He must bear punishment and pain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But righteous reason will not let</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The innocent be hurt in vain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God never gave His judgment yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they should suffer who show no stain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sinful soul of mercy fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds pardon if he will repent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he who sinless doth remain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is surely saved, being innocent.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-57">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Two men are saved of God’s good grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who severally have done His will:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The righteous man shall see His face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The innocent dwells with Him still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the Psalter thou may’st find a case:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Lord, who shall climb to Thy high hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or rest within Thy Holy Place?’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The psalmist doth the sense fulfill:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Who with his hands did never ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His heart to evil never lent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There to ascend he shall have skill;’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So surely saved is the innocent.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-58">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“That the righteous is saved I hold certain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before God’s palace he shall stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never took man’s life in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never to flatter his fellow planned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the righteous, the Wise Man writeth plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How kindly our King doth him command;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In ways full strait he doth restrain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet shows him the kingdom great and grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As who saith: ‘Behold! yon lovely land!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou may’st win it, if so thy will be bent.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with never peril on either hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surely saved is the innocent.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-59">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Of the righteous saved, hear one man say⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>David, who in the Psalter cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘O Lord, call never Thy servant to pay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For no man living is justified.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So thou, if thou shalt come one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the court that each cause must decide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For mercy with justice thou may’st pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through this same text that I espied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But may He on the bloody cross that died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His holy hands with hard nails rent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give thee to pass when thou art tried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saved, not as righteous, but innocent.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-60">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Of the sinless saved the tale is told⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Read in the Book where it is said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Jesus walked, among men of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people a passage to Him made;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bringing their bairns for Him to hold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the blessing of His hand they prayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The twelve reproved them: ‘Overbold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To seek the Master;’ and sternly stayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Jesus said: ‘Be ye not afraid;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suffer the children, nor prevent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s kingdom is for such arrayed.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surely saved are the innocent.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
