<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h2>
			<section id="stanza-11">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>For the beauteousness of downs and dales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wood and water and proud plains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My joy springs up and my grief quails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My anguish ends, and all my pains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A swift stream down the valley hales</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My feet along. Bliss brims my brains;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The farther I follow those watery vales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stronger joy my heart constrains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While Fortune fares as her proud will deigns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sending solace or sending sore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When a man her fickle favour gains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looketh to have aye more and more.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-12">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>There was more of marvel and of grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than I could tell, howe’er I tried;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The human heart that could embrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tenth part were well satisfied;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Paradise, the very place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must be upon that farther side;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The water by a narrow space</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleasance from pleasance did divide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond, on some slope undescried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The City stood, I thought, wherefore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I strove to cross the river’s tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever I longed, yet more and more.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-13">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>More, and still more wistfully,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The banks beyond the brook I scanned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If, where I stood, ’twas fair to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still lovelier lay that farther land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sought if any ford might be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found, up or down, by rock or sand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But perils plainer appeared to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The farther I strode along the strand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought I ought not thus to stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Timid, with such bright bliss before;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then a new matter came to hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That moved my heart yet more and more.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-14">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Marvels more and more amaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My mind beyond that water fair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a cliff of crystal, splendid rays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflected, quiver in the air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the cliff’s foot a vision stays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My glance, a maiden debonaire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All glimmering white before my gaze;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I know her⁠—have seen her otherwhere.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like fine gold leaf one cuts with care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shone the maiden on the farther shore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long time I looked upon her there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever I knew her more and more.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-15">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>As more and more I scanned her face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And form, when I had found her so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A glory of gladness filled the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond all it was wont to show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My joy would call her and give chase,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But wonder struck my courage low;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw her in so strange a place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shock turned my heart dull and slow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now she lifts that brow aglow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like ivory smooth, even as of yore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It made my senses straying go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It stung my heart aye more and more.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
