<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-7" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h2>
			<section id="stanza-31">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Doom me not, dearest damosel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is not for wrath nor bitterness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If rash and raving thoughts I tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sin my heart seethed in distress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like bubbling water in a well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cry God mercy, and confess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rebuke me not with words so fell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have lost all that my life did bless;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comfort my sorrow and redress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Piteously thinking upon this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grief and my soul thou hast made express</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One music⁠—thou who wert my bliss.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-32">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“My bliss and bale, thou hast been both,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But joy by great grief was undone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When thou didst vanish, by my troth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew not where my Pearl was gone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lose thee now I were most loth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, when we parted we were one;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now God forbid that we be wroth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We meet beneath the moon or sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So seldom. Gently thy words run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I am dust, my deeds amiss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mercy of Christ and Mary and John</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is root and ground of all my bliss.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-33">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“A blissful life I see thee lead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while that I am sorrow’s mate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Haply thou givest little heed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What might my burning hurt abate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since I may in thy presence plead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do beseech thee thou narrate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soberly, surely, word and deed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What life is thine, early and late?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am fain of thy most fair estate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The high road of my joy is this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thou hast happiness so great;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the ground of all my bliss.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-34">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>She said, “May bliss to thee betide,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her face with beauty beaming clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Welcome thou art here to abide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For now thy speech is to me dear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Masterful mood and haughty pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I warn thee win but hatred here;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my Lord loveth not to chide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And meek are all that to Him come near.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When in His place thou shalt appear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To kneel devout be not remiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Lord the Lamb loveth such cheer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who is the ground of all my bliss.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-35">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Thou sayest a blissful life I know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou wouldst learn of its degree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou rememberest when thy pearl fell low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In earth, I was but young to see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my Lord the Lamb, as if to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His grace, took me His bride to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crowned me a queen in bliss to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through length of days eternally;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dowered with all His wealth is she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who is His love, and I am His;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His worthiness and royalty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are root and ground of all my bliss.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
