<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-20" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h2>
			<section id="stanza-97">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Delight that flooded eye and ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My mortal mind beatified;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I saw her, I must reach my dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though she beyond the brook abide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing, I thought, could keep me here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No crippling blow hold my strength tied;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would plunge, whatever interfere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swim the stream, though there I died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ere the water I had tried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as I would my vow fulfill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From my purpose I was turned aside;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was not to my Prince’s will.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-98">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>My wilful purpose pleased not Him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I with headlong zeal essayed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I was rash of thought and limb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet suddenly my deed was stayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I sprang forward to the brim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The action in my dreaming made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me waken in my arbour trim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My head upon the mound was laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where my pearl to the grass once strayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stretched my body, frightened, chill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, sighing, to myself I said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Now all be to the Prince’s will.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-99">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Against my will was I exiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From that bright region, fair and fain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From that life, glad and undefiled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And longing dulled my sense again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I swooned in sorrow for the child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Needs must my heart cry and complain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O Pearl, dear was thy counsel mild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this true vision of my brain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If very truth divide us twain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou goest crowned, secure from ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well for me in my prison-pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thou art to the Prince’s will.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-100">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">C</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>To the Prince’s will had my heart bent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sought but what to me was given,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held fast to that, with true intent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As my Pearl prayed me out of heaven;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did I to God my thoughts present,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More in His mysteries had I thriven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a man will seek more than is sent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till from his hand his hope be riven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus from my joy was I forth driven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the life upon that holy hill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, fools, that with the Lord have striven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or proffered gifts against his will!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-101">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The Prince’s will to serve aright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Christian may full well divine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I have found Him, day and night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A God, a Lord, a Friend in fine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon this mound my soul hath sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I for piteous sorrow pine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Pearl to God I pledge and plight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Christ’s dear blessing and with mine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His, who, in form of bread and wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The priest doth daily show us still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His servants may we be, or shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pure pearls, according to his will.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
