<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-15" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
			<section id="stanza-71">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>This Jerusalem Lamb had never stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of other hue than perfect white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That showeth neither streak nor strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of soil, but is like wool to sight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And souls that free of sin remain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lamb receiveth with delight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, though each day a group we gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There comes no strife for room nor right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor rivalry our bliss to blight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more the merrier, I profess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In company our love grows bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In honour more and never less.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-72">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Lessening of bliss no comer brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To us who bear this pearl at breast;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor show they flaws nor tarnishings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who wear such pure pearls like a crest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though round our corpses the clay clings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though ye mourn us without rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowledge have we of goodly things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the first death our hope we test;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grief goes; at each mass we are blest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the Lamb Who gives us happiness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bliss of each is bright and best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one’s honour is the less.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-73">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“That thou my tale the less may doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the Revelation ’tis told, and more:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘I saw,’ says John, ‘a goodly rout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hill of Zion covering o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lamb, with maidens round about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An hundred thousand and forty and four,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each brow, fairly written out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lamb’s name and His Father’s bore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then a sound from heaven I heard outpour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As streams, full laden, foam and press,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or as thunders among dark crags roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tumult was, and nothing less.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-74">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Nathless, though high that shout might ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loud the voices sounding near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A strain full new I heard them sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sweet and strange it was to hear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like harper’s hands upon the string</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was that new song they sang so clear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The noble notes went vibrating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gentle words came to my ear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Close by God’s throne, without one fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the four beasts His power confess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the elders stand so grave of cheer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sang their new song, none the less.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-75">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Nathless is none with skill so fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all the crafts that ever he knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That of that song might sing a line;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save these that hold the Lamb in view;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From earth brought to that land divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As first fruits that to God are due,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They serve the Lamb and bear His sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As like Himself in face and hue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For never lying nor tale untrue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defiled their lips in life’s distress;’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whatever might move them, they but drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nearer the Master, none the less.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-76">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Nevertheless, speak out I must,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Pearl, though queries rude I pose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To try thy fair wit were unjust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom Christ to His own chamber chose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold, I am but dung and dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou a rare and radiant rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abiding here in life, and lust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of loveliness that ever grows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hind that no least cunning knows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I needs must my one doubt express;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though boisterous as the wind that blows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let my prayer move thee none the less.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
