<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-9" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h2>
			<section id="stanza-41">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“That courtesy rewards no deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If all be true that thou dost say;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our life not two years didst thou lead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor learned to please God, nor to pray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Paternoster knew nor creed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made a queen on the first day!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I may not think, so God me speed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That God from right would swerve away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a countess, damsel, by my fay!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To live in heaven were a fair boon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or like a lady of less array,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a queen! Ah, no! it is too soon.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-42">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“With Him there is no soon nor late,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Replied to me that worthy wight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“True always is His high mandate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He doth no evil, day nor night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear Matthew in the mass narrate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the Gospel of the God of might,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His parable portrays the state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Kingdom of Heaven, clear as light:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘My servants,’ saith He, ‘I requite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a lord who will his vineyard prune;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The season of the year is right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And labourers must be hired soon.’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-43">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Right soon the hirelings all may see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the master with the dawn arose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hire his labourers forth went he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And workmen stout and strong he chose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a penny a day they all agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as the master doth propose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They toil and travail lustily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prune, bind, and with a ditch enclose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then to the market-place he goes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And finds men idle at high noon:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘How can a man stand here who knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vineyards should be tilled so soon?’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-44">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Soon as day dawned we hither won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no man hath our labour sought;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have been standing since rose the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one bids us to do aught.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Enter my vineyard every one,’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The master answered quick as thought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘The work that each by night has done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will truly pay, withholding naught.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the vines they went and wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While morning, noon and afternoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More labourers the master brought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the night must gather soon.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-45">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“Soon fell the time of evensong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An hour before the sun was set,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw more idlers, young and strong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His voice was sober with regret:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Why stand ye idle all day long?’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘No man,’ they said, ‘hath hired us yet.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Go to my vineyard, fear no wrong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each man an honest wage shall get.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day grew dark and darker yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Before the rising of the moon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The master who would pay his debt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bade summon all the hirelings soon.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
