<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-18" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h2>
			<section id="stanza-87">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>As John doth write more met mine eye:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within each wall were set three gates;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve in succession I could spy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Portals adorned with bright gold plates;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each gate a single pearl saw I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A perfect pearl, as John relates.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each a name was written high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Israel’s sons after their dates,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The oldest first, as the story states.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within those streets by night or noon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light beams that not one hour abates;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They needed neither sun nor moon.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-88">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVIII</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Of sun or moon they had no need;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God Himself was their lamp light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lamb their lantern was indeed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Him the city shone all bright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through wall and dwelling my looks might speed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such clearness could not hinder sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the high throne ye might take heed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With draperies of radiant white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As John the Apostle doth endite;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High God Himself did sit thereon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the throne a river welled outright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was brighter than both sun and moon.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-89">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIX</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Sun nor moon shone never so sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the full flood of that bright stream;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swiftly it swept through every street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untainted did the water gleam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chapel nor church mine eyes did meet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therein is no temple as I deem;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Almighty is their minster meet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lamb their sacrifice supreme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gates with neither bolt nor beam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wide open stand at night and noon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To enter there let no man dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom sin hath stained beneath the moon.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-90">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XC</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The moon may there win no least might,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She is too spotty, grey and grim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therein, moreover, is never night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why should the moon fill full her rim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To rival the all-glorious light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That beams upon the river’s brim?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The planets are in poorest plight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun itself is far too dim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside the stream trees tall and trim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bear living fruits that none doth prune;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve times a year bends low each limb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renewed with fruitage every moon.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="stanza-91">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath the moon full well might fail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heart of mortal to endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The marvel that did mine eyes assail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fashioned the fancy to allure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stood as still as a startled quail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wonder of its fair figure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I felt no rest and no travail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ravished before such radiance pure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I say, and with conviction sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had the eyes of man received that boon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though wisest clerks sought for his cure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life were lost beneath the moon.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
